Protocol -
A defined set of standards that computers must follow in order to communicate properly.

Computer networking -
The name we've given to the full scope of how computers communicate with each other.

In this course, TCP/IP model is being selected.

#             Layer Name       Protocol              Protocol Data Unit           Addressing
5            Application     HTTP, SMTP, etc..           Messages                    n/a 
4            Transport       TCP/UDP                     Segment                     Port #'s 
4            Network         IP                          Datagram                    IP address 
2            Data Link       Ethernet, Wi-Fi             Frames                      MAC Address
1            Physical        10 Base T, 802.11           Bits                        n/a

Physical Layer:
Represents the physical devices that interconnect computers. This includes specifications for the networking cables and connectors that join 
devices together, along with the specifications that signals are sent over these connections.

Data Link or Network Interface or Network Access Layer:
Responsible for defining a common way of interpreting these signals so network devices can communicate.
The most common protocol is Ethernet. Also now a days wireless are becoming more popular.

Ethernet:
The Ethernet standards also define protocol Responsible for getting data to nodes on the same network or link.

Network Layer, also sometimes called Internet Layer:
Allows different networks to communicate with each other through devices known as routers.

Internetwork:
A collection of networks connected together through routers, the most famous of these being the Internet.

While the Data Link Layer is responsible for getting the data across single link, the network layer is
responsible for getting data delivered across the collection of networks.

The most common protocol used is IP - Internet Protocol

IP is the heart of the Internet and most smaller networks around the world.

The network software is usually divided into client and server.

Transport Layer:
Sorts out which client and server programs are supposed to get that data.

Most common protocol used in this Layer is TCP.

TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
UDP - User Datagram Protocol

The big difference between these two is TCP provides mechanisms to ensure that data is reliably delivered, while UDP does not.

The network Layer that is IP is responsible for getting data from one node to another node.
The Transport layer mostly TCP/UDP is responsible for ensuring that data gets to right application running on those nodes.

Application Layer:
Protocols allow you to  browse web or send emails are some common ones.
Protocols - HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP

You can think of layers like different aspects of package being delivered -

The physical layer is the delivery truck and the roads.
The data link layer is how the delivery trucks get from one intersection to the next over and over.
The network layer identifies which roads to be taken from address A to address B.
The transport layer ensures that delivery driver knows how to knock on your door to tell you your package has arrived.
The application layer is the contents of the package itself. 
